# REST-API Bepado Platform

Some of the SDK calls to bepado can be done without the SDK, using the REST-API.
The SDK has convenience methods for these calls if you are using PHP anyways.

## Authentication

Authentication to the REST API happens via HTTP headers using HMAC-SHA512.
With every request you have to transmit:

    X-Bepado-Shop: Id
    X-Bepado-Key: HMAC-Key

The shop id can be found in the bepado "Exchange" (Synchronization) tab
in your account. The Key is a computed value using the bepado API Key.

The HMAC Key is generatd using SHA-512 as an algorihtm, the secret is the bepado API Key
and the payload is the JSON formatted body. The PHP code to build the secret is:

```php
<?php
$data = array('pay' => 'load');
$payload = json_encode($data);
$key = hash_hmac('sha512', $payload, $apiKey);
```

## Update Order Status

As a supplier (Lieferant) I can update the status of a bepado order so that
the dealer (Händler) and end-customer can be informed about changes.

Endpoint: https://sn.bepado.de/sdk/update-order-status
Method: POST
Payload:

- `id` - The order ID of the transaction that was generated by the supplier
- `status` - One of `open`, `in_process`, `delivered`, `canceled` or `error`.
- `tracking` - A structure with keys `id`, `url` and `vendor`. The value is optional

Example:

    POST https://sn.bepado.de/sdk/update-order-status
    X-Bepado-Shop: 1
    X-Bepado-Key: abcdefg

    {
        "id": "1234",
        "status": "in_process",
        "tracking": {"id": "ABCDEFG1234567890"}
    }

## Register Event Hooks

bepado provides event hooks for events. Whenever something interesting happens inside bepado
you may opt-in to get notified about these events via Webhook.

Currently the following events exist:

- `order_created` is triggered when an order was created through bepado. It will be published to both parties (supplier and dealer) when they have a hook registered. The dealer can recieve multiple events for the same order when different suppliers took part in the transaction.

- `order_status_updated` is triggered when either supplier or merchant update the status of the order.

- `order_payment_status_updated` is triggered when information about the payment between merchant and supplier are updated.

Endpoint: https://sn.bepado.de/sdk/hooks
Method: POST/DELETE
Payload:

- `eventName` - Name of the event to register a hook url to or list of events seperated by comma.
- `url` - URL where to send the hook to.

Example:

    POST https://sn.bepado.de/sdk/hooks
    X-Bepado-Shop: 1
    X-Bepado-Key: abcdefg

    {
        "eventName": "order_created,order_status_updated,order_payment_status_updated",
        "url": "http://example.com/my_hook.php"
    }

Security of hooks: When bepado notifies your url of an event, it uses the `X-Bepado-Shop` and `X-Bepado-Key` headers as well. You can use them to verify
that it was really bepado that sent you the event and not some malicous third party.

### Ensuring Message Delivery

To ensure that events are really delivered we implement the webhook as replication using incremental revisions.
This prevents loss of data through network outage or any problems on the recieving end of the communication.

Each registered webhook will recieve a stream of events ordered by the revision number. Before any
new events are sent to the server it is checked that the previous event(s) were recieved.

This is why your webhook implementation needs to implement two modes of operation:

1. A GET request that returns the last successfully processed event-revision.
2. a POST request that accepts the next event.

Lets take a hypothetical "http://example.org/hook" URL and look at the communication:

1. bepado asks the last processed event revision:

        GET /hook
        Host: example.org

2. Your server responds with an XML snippet containing the last processed event revision, for example "1":

        HTTP/1.1 200 OK
        Content-Type: text/xml; charset=UTF-8

        <last-revision>1</last-revision>

3. bepado replicates the next event with id higher than "1" to your server:

        POST /hook
        Host: example.org

        <order-event>
            <revision>2</revision>
            <!-- ... -->
        </order-event>

4. You save the Revision 2 from the `<revision>`-tag in your database as the
   last processed revision when you can guarantee that the event was stored on
   your side. If your server fails to save the revision then bepado will attempt
   to send the event again some time later. Using a database transaction to save
   both the events data and update the last revision is the best way to achieve
   this task.

### Event "order_created"

When an order is created through bepado with two or more parties you can get notified
of the details of this order with the "order_created" hook. A sample XML request
looks like this:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<order-event xmlns="http://schema.bepado.de/order+v1" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://schema.bepado.de/order+v1 https://sn.bepado.de/schema/order_v1.xsd">
 <revision>1</revision>
 <event>order_created</event>
 <order transaction-id="1" transaction-date="2014-05-06 12:15:00" supplier-shop="22" supplier-order-id="200" merchant-shop="20" merchant-order-id="100">
  <shipping-costs net="10" gross="11.9"/>
  <customer-total net="190" gross="214.1"/>
  <intershop-total net="110" gross="124.9"/>
  <delivery-address>
    <company>Acme Corp.</company>
    <name>Max Mustermann</name>
    <first-name>Max</first-name>
    <middle-name/>
    <sur-name>Mustermann</sur-name>
    <street>Neustraße</street>
    <street-number>22</street-number>
    <door-code>a</door-code>
    <additional-address-line>foo</additional-address-line>
    <zip>12345</zip>
    <city>Neustadt</city>
    <country>DEU</country>
  </delivery-address>
  <billing-address>
    <company>Acme Corp.</company>
    <first-name>Max</first-name>
    <sur-name>Mustermann</sur-name>
    <street>Neustraße</street>
    <street-number>12-14a</street-number>
    <door-code/>
    <additional-address-line/>
    <zip>12345</zip>
    <city>Neustadt</city>
    <country>DEU</country>
    <phone>+1234</phone>
    <email>max@mustermann.de</email>
  </billing-address>
  <order-items>
    <item source-id="1" count="1">
      <customer-price net="100" gross="107"/>
      <intershop-price net="50" gross="53.5"/>
    </item>
    <item source-id="2" count="3">
      <customer-price net="90" gross="107.1"/>
      <intershop-price net="60" gross="71.4"/>
    </item>
  </order-items>
 </order>
</order-event>
```

### Event: "order_status_updated"

When the status of an order is updated an event is fired for this change.

The following order status values are allowed:

- `open` - When the transaction/order is created
- `in_process` - When the supplier started processing the order
- `shipped` - When the supplier sent out the order to his shipping company
- `delivered` - When the shipping company marked the order as delivered and the supplier marks the order as delivered
- `canceled` - When either merchant or supplier mark the order as canceled for various reasons (end customer canceled, untrustworthy customer, payment not accepted, ...)
- `error` - When automatic processing failed

Please note that not all shop systems can transition to all states.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<order-event xmlns="http://schema.bepado.de/order+v1" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://schema.bepado.de/order+v1 https://sn.bepado.de/schema/order_v1.xsd">
    <revision>2</revision>
    <event>order_status_updated</event>
    <order transaction-id="1" transaction-date="2014-05-06 12:15:00" supplier-shop="22" supplier-order-id="200" merchant-shop="20" merchant-order-id="100">
        <status>in_process</status>
    </order>
</order>
```

### Event: "order_payment_status_updated"

When the payment status of an order is updated an event is fired for this change.
A payment here is the payment of the merchant shop to the supplier. No information
is exchanged about the payment status of the end customer.

The interesting payment states are:

- "instructed" - When the supplier marks an order payed by invoice as instructed to his bank.
- "received" - When the payment provider executed the payment or the supplier marked the invoice as payed.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<order-event xmlns="http://schema.bepado.de/order+v1" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://schema.bepado.de/order+v1 https://sn.bepado.de/schema/order_v1.xsd">
    <revision>3</revision>
    <event>order_payment_status_updated</event>
    <order transaction-id="1" transaction-date="2014-05-06 12:15:00" supplier-shop="22" supplier-order-id="200" merchant-shop="20" merchant-order-id="100">
        <payment-status>received</payment-status>
    </order>
</order>
```
